welcome everyone to this week's ipld
sync meeting it's
august the 31st
2020 and as every week we go over the
stuff that we've done
in the past week and plan to do the next
week and then discuss
um open um agenda items we
might have so let me
assume it's driving me nuts sorry um
it's always
on top of everything sorry i need to get
the
eggplant on um okay
so um yeah i started myself
so in the past week i finally yeah i
also like
had time to spend on ipod stuff so
um i worked on tiny multihash a bit
which is a fork of rust
multihash but it's planned to get
upstream
and um
yeah i plan to do hopefully the merge
this week and to have it upstream
and the the other thing is then of
course you need to also
upstream rust cld and so on but
um so basically this week i try to focus
on getting all that
is upstream and you can then move from
there because we also have the
discussion if we want to use
mono repo like approach like js is doing
so not like like not like
everything in one library so in one
create but just like having a single
repository for all the multi formats
because like
multi hash and cid and so on is often
like depends so much
on each other or like you want to have
changes between them so it might make
sense having a single repository with
all the crates in it but that's uh yeah
something i also want to discuss with a
broader
community um yeah
and then also um i started discussion
about like what
what multi codec actually means um
so this was a spin-off by
also rust um discussion that um
it kind of is like basically
multi-hash is about hashes so we create
multi-hashes and then we have
multi-hatches
and kind of i please about codex
so should the thing that you work on be
called
multicodec because it's kind of like
codex
on steroids as mutators are for hashes
and it was just interesting because i've
never seen it like this because i know
all the long history of multicodex and
stuff
so but it might be interesting to yeah
discuss
the naming or see if because
i personally think for example that
multi-coding should be actually what we
currently call multi-coding should be
called my decode only
but i think we still should call the the
other thing
hyperled coding but yeah still
is names and we should clarify things
and there's an open issue that i was
also linked in the notes
yeah cool um that's
all i have so not that much news
actually
oh i have more news that i'm finally
i've done a lot of
fire con work in the past few weeks and
today i also announced in the
or like we discussed in the falcon
meeting from our team
where i am is that i'm finally back to
only part-time on file coins so i
play plan to spend about like a day
worth
of work and file coin and the rest of my
quality
so i'm kind of like back to normal
yeah that might be interesting for the
team so hopefully there will be more
hyperld news from me in the next few
weeks
okay next on my list is peter
yeah no updates from my side i miss you
guys
okay um then
next on my list is danielle
cool so this was my first week i'm i've
been mostly
getting on board and reading the docs
and specs
and i've also started capturing my
experience
as i go along and with the hope that if
there's anything useful that i can sort
of feedback
after you know going through that
process that might be useful
uh also as i was reading the specs for
the blog format
i noticed that there's a way to encode
json strings in multiple ways
with the current spec so i found that as
an issue might not be
high purity but could still be
interesting and that's it for now
um i'll just continue um i would say i'm
about two-thirds done
understanding the specs at least at a
basic level
i probably need to read the schema stuff
a couple more times to fully understand
it
but that's it cool
thanks next one is eric
profiling um i spent a little bit of
time this week looking at
reports from downstream users of some of
our libraries about memory profiling
stuff
coin is looking at their performance as
is to be expected in that project at
this phase i guess
um and so a couple of pr's have
landed in go ipld prime about reducing
allocations
and we've merged some of those that
involve
mostly just drilling through
abstractions a little bit
like it's good to have a reader and
writer interfaces
so that you have interfaces for a bunch
of reasons
but then it turns out also if you know
that you have this whole byte array as
one contiguous thing
if you drill straight through it needs
that it goes faster and that's for your
allocs
so we've started introducing some
drilling through abstractions like that
where the performance seems
justified so that's fun um
i've also just been doing a bunch of
enumeration of other tasks that we need
to do in this library in the last week
a bunch of that stuff has lived in my
head and that is no longer scalable
uh daniel has written a half dozen
fixes to various issues in go ipld prime
by the way which he didn't give himself
credit for
um so he should do this and is
renovating the ci so that's highly
welcome
and the other piece of interesting news
i have for this week is
i had a meeting with the textile and
three box folks and some of the other
people that they're working with to
develop the jose and
jose and jose and all these
implementations um
there's somebody now who is looking at
how to do that stuff in going
and that's really exciting so i spent a
little time walking around
the libraries with them and
um i think a lot of the implementation
choices will be just like
totally up to those developers doing
that stuff um
and we didn't really like make strict
commitments about how any of that stuff
is expected to proceed
yet it was just sort of like information
exchange a little bit more fact-finding
about like
the details of the code base and how
like
here's where the codec code lives and
here's where the other you know
but now they're equipped with lots of
information about that so i'm really
looking forward to seeing what comes
with that and we talked about a bunch of
different ways these things could be
implemented to maximize the codings
we will see a fairly likely outcome it
sounded like from our early discussion
is actually that we will
aim we'll hope that it will be possible
to aim most of the implementation
so that it acts a bit like adl like
advanced layout code in general
specifically in the sense that it'll be
a bunch of functions that have the rough
signature of
give me one node and i will give you
another node that has rephrased the
information a little bit
and then when we want this to still be
directly associated with some kind of a
multi-codec number
it's really easy to take that and just
tie it together with multi-codec code
at the last moment but if you want to
have this code ready to use as an adl in
the future
we might come up with interfaces that
get us like 99 if not 100 of the way
there as well at the same time so
hopefully that's
just winning and we'll see
so that's about it for me
thanks next is michael
hey you um another week of just being
captured by z bag
um it's uh whoo
there's some cool stuff um so
there's a there's a very detailed spec
and it contains pretty much
all of my ideas and reasoning and what
was implemented
um through last week till about thursday
and then i've had more ideas since then
um including like some of the biggest
compression wins that i think i've seen
uh but the the really big thing is that
um gotten much better at explaining it i
had a really good call with research
uh got some really good input from uh
steven actually who just said i don't
get this
and here's what i would need to
understand what you're talking about um
so i wrote that
uh wrote a bunch of more stuff into the
spec so
it's a bit more understandable i bet
last week i sounded like a crazy person
who hadn't slept because that's
what i was uh but yeah
now it's like actually like a real thing
also
man i found just some huge
huge wins like uh like uh when you parse
a csv
you know like you get back a bunch of
just lists of lists right like it's just
an array of a bunch of arrays
or it's like an array of a bunch of uh
objects but just like the same
keys over and over again all of the same
size
i i have techniques to shed just all of
those tokens
like there's just no tokens anymore it's
literally like you can just encode the
dimensions of the shape
and then if it if the columns have the
same type you can just
encode the type once for the column and
then if they have the same keys you can
just encode the key deltas once
and so literally it's like that kind of
a structure just becomes like
a series of violence without a closing
token because you know the dimensions so
you don't even need a closing token
it's really amazing um and if you keep
the compression tables below 255
you have it's actually a fixed size
table so you can skip into it
um because it's you know that they're
only one bite pointers
um yeah so like if we design for this
we're just gonna end up with stuff
that's like 50 to 70 percent smaller
than cbor
like um like in in i think the generic
case like if you just take something
from seabourn put it in this it'll be
like a maybe like a 12
increase but if you design for it like
it's
nuts um so yeah i mean at the end of the
call i think i could talk a little bit
more about like how i'm
describing it and some of like the the
research
folks were really helpful in in terms of
coming up with like the right
terminology to use and stuff like that
so i can talk about at the end of the
call but that's basically my week
uh and um also like a bunch of
management stuff
that i've had to do um and uh yeah
that's about it though
um i don't know who's next folker
next is right um so a week of
miscellany in javascript um
my head in some of this esm stuff again
um testing browser stuff
uh ui eight arrays versus buffers um
and so mostly focused around the car
repo because that's sort of
uh what what i was well
it wasn't my intention to do that this
week i was meant to do the bitcoin spec
we got caught up in this javascript
stuff um
but i sort of angling towards getting
the car
stuff easier to use so that we can
work on some of this um
test fixture stuff that eric and i
mapped out
that's the sort of the rough goal still
want to get that done even
if we've well i mean we might want to go
back and
help falcone with their stuff but um
that was the original goal for that but
it's just a long-term goal anyway
so just been working on modernizing that
stuff um making it work in the browser
used michael's new tool chain for
javascript
it's all working well i got a big pr
merged
that i've linked in the notes
and i've started refactoring the whole
interface just the
the data store interface
which inherits from an old
thing that came up was come up with for
ipfs it's just
it's just too frustratingly um on
ipld um and so
um been decided to bite the bullet and
and do a new interface for that that is
much more
uh in line with our conception of the
the block abstraction
um so i have an issue that i'm linking
the notes there that i
wrote up my proposal for what i'm going
to do there
so that's i want to try and finish that
out
but while i'm doing that i'm also
finding
that what i might
do i'm not sure yet whether i'll do this
just internally in the car library or
actually um
refactor it more heavily but but i'm
pulling out the core of the algorithm
into
a like it was already pulled out into a
core
piece like an encoder decoder but i'm
thinking maybe that needs to just go
elsewhere and so you've got this block
storage
abstraction over car files which
doesn't really belong like car files
aren't really they're not really
a block store in the way you would
normally use a block store where you can
put get
iterate all those sort of things a car a
flat file is a
has various modes you can operate over
the top of it so it's not
it doesn't fit the abstraction perfectly
it's good enough
um but car files uh
it has the basic algorithm associated
with it so
considering pulling out that thing into
a separate library so that you can
you can just use that if you want to and
you can write your own abstraction over
the top of it
and however you want to interface with
it um or maybe i'll just put keep it in
that library and make it more accessible
from the outside
not sure yet but um that's going on so
i'm extracting that out into a
nicer thing
rod i just uh i just posted a link in
the chat um it's not something to really
bother with like a lot right now
but i want to keep it in mind it's um
it's a stage three language enhancement
to javascript
um so it might be usable within the next
three years or so
um like we might be able to move to it
like in a couple years
um but it's immutable types and
uh they're god we're gonna get a lot of
use out of them
um they're they're phenomenal but um
the the big thing is that as you're
working with the block interface
and as we're designing some of these
other things um we should keep in mind
that in a few years we may take a
breaking change to adopt some of these
tools
um in particular the block api
caches um both the
um both the encoded and decoded state of
the block
and then it basically returns you copies
that's why those unsafe methods exist
so that um you can always if you know
that you're not going to mutate it you
can get the
raw one but if you mutate it then you
end up with these like awful
awful bugs like i did this once in dagdb
and it took me like two days to track it
down um
and so these are going to be faster too
so at some point like instead of
um having the binary around it'll
probably be an immutable tuple
of of the the uinta state basically
and you know any uh encoded maps will
probably end up becoming records as well
and
we'll also do the copies out of those um
so
yeah i like it i only put it on our
radar now just that like as we're
designing new things that we keep in
mind that we will probably want to slot
this in at some point
and then and that these primitives are
going to really help us out and make
things like a lot faster
well i think i think moving to an
interface that
deals with a single thing is is the key
here
and for now it's the block interface yep
and then
in the future that can evolve but but
yeah the challenge
we have now is that this the data store
interface is
its string key binary value
and yeah we have cids and
blocks and it's like ah so this is
constant conversion for cids and it's
just a mess
yeah yeah but one thing to think about
though is that um
you you can do these deep compare
so they're immutable so you can do deep
comparisons against them so you can
actually create a set
and uh check if it's in the set
and it's like a full deep comparison so
we can even like
if we're encoding a lot of data and we
know that we have a like right now
i have a bunch of lrus of just the block
store but i'm just using those to check
if the cid
is in there or not we can actually skip
the encodes and decodes for common data
by checking if they've been encoded or
decoded before
by doing these new comparisons using the
immutable types so it's going to be
pretty cool once it's once it's there
i've been asking for this for
like a decade but yeah i'm pretty
excited
it's moving along the stages pretty
quickly and the vendors are really
excited about implementing it
more breaking changes it's like three
years away it's like three years
it's okay um no okay that's
okay good to know
all right um does anyone else
have any updates or wants to share
something
or as last week i forgot to because it's
good to do the beginning to
ask for new faces if they want to
introduce themselves
um of course you don't have to but
[Music]
i i sorry ricardo sorry go ahead
hi my name is ricardo malabon i am from
mexico and i am very interested in
ipsf as a technology
because we have a very challenging
internet access in some sounds in mexico
and this technology that can
enable the centralization is very
important
for us to develop um
i am not a developer i am an integrator
or as we call here integrators
and i am very interested in these
kind of technologies i am only
a guest
i cannot give too much to you
i don't i don't have this kind of
knowledge but if you allow me i can
learn
much about this about this
specific project the ipld
is very interesting how you work with
data
and thanks to allow me to be here
thanks awesome cool yeah
um um
yeah so uh yes that's so do we have any
agenda items
um to discuss or should we give like
35 minutes to michael to read about
his new stuff so i i
just on that on the previous topic i i
uh
it ends with us now now i'd like to hear
um
uh i didn't you're you've got a new role
i think
you're you seem to be doing a lot of the
go ipfs stuff can you
tell us about where you slot in now and
how we should consider you
in the ipfs team uh stephen got
kidnapped so i am scared
uh that is the closest approximation
um but but honestly i think uh
he's probably like uh stephen is still
around helping especially some of the
transition stuff
um i suspect that he will use the
opportunity
um post some of the file coin stuff to
figure out
like to do some of the things he
initially wanted to do before he got
ipfs maintainer sniped
um literally the same way that you're
getting it
like because jeremy got pulled into
filecoin
yeah yeah right so right um
so so that's sort of that sort of stuff
um
the things on on the to-do list and like
you know so some things that are
currently on on like
my to-do list are uh
figuring out like we have we have some
like bit swap stuff
around the fact that we
don't we seem to have this plan where we
just advertise every block in the
universe
and like that's ridiculous
um right like if i have a one terabyte
zip file like no one needs the fifth
block in the zip file to be advertised
they need the first block that's that's
it
um but that requires some changes to um
to bit swap and then and then also the
dht
i'd like to make the dht more
upgradeable
basically make it easier to sort of
rotate and do version bumps
um we have this almost you know
almost done uh conv switch and go ipfs
to use
multi hashes in the block store um
which should make things a much easier
with the cidv1 stuff
and and whatnot um
and then i don't know i would like to
get to mutable naming stuff
because that's gotten a lot better in
the last year but still
leaves much to be desired um
there's actually i would like to
may not be as far out as as some may
suspect although
it may um i want an ipld format for ips
records
um because i think it would
i think it would be useful in
it we needed to be more more extensible
and b i suspect that in a
new unix fs may come quickly in our
times
uh they
uh that we will be able to also have
mutable subdirectories
so instead of just having like the one
mutable pointer and then everything else
underneath it is immutable
i think it's totally reasonable for
people to want mutable directories of
other mutable directories
um just because like that's how
they're used to working with it
sometimes
yeah yeah um i mean we should definitely
do a schema for ipns
like to come back to that um like we
should definitely like just write that i
mean
we can write that at any time um we have
the schema language
it's not a very difficult like kind of
format to work with
um the mutable subdirectories thing is
interesting
um because i'm not sure how you would
want to encode it
um like would you want
like where would you want to put the
mutability like would you want to put it
in the immutable graph or would you want
to put it
in the name or in the naming point
and my guess would just be like if and
and this is coming
strictly from like a you know this is
how a file system would do it is
you have the directory is a list of
pointers to things but instead of the
pointers being
you know to immutable things the
pointers aren't immutable things
right okay yeah this this is definitely
a dimension of unix 52 that we haven't
explored yet
um so just just a quick update on on
unix m62 because you
probably like haven't like been staring
at our specs repo um
we we have um
we have a really good data structure now
for all the bytes
so like a linear stream of bytes we have
a data structure for that that not only
like
is super efficient and nice um and like
recursive and
really really awesome um but um it
doesn't lock
the um the layout of any of this stuff
down
at all so it supports like every sort of
like you know trickle dag
like flat dag like all of that stuff um
it supports all of that
but you you don't need any new code to
ever be able to read it or anything like
that
um so we would never have to ship like
new reader code we would just be able to
plug these in
and so we have that as like a generic
data structure called our flexible byte
list the fbl because we have other cases
where we want a stream of bytes that
aren't unique to us
too um and then in e62 we're just kind
of pointing to that
we have like a pr for a draft
specification of unixico c2
it's somewhat reasonable it doesn't
include what you just talked about
though
and um i think like the more that we
look at like
that part of the spec that just like
described files and directories
once you're in ipld schema land it's
really easy to do this we're just going
to kind of argue about like
what is the most efficient
representation and that's we're going to
end up arguing for
[ __ ] months about metadata um like
you know
like exactly how do we encode like dates
and things like that so there's all
these like fiddly bits that are going to
take like a long series of bike [ __ ]
but the the basics are all kind of there
and i think also
um for stuff like uh like the the file
metadata it has to all be optional
anyway
because you you want to be able to have
files that like you know didn't have all
this
unix success or like traditional file
system overhead
um but i i think that we should log in
issue though about
the ipns thing because uh
that would i think the way that we
structured
the directory pointers and you want this
only for directories not for files right
i mean i files would be reasonable too
my thought was more like
if you get somebody made an ips pointer
to a thing
that you can use and render and then
they wanted to keep a collection of it
somewhere
where are they going to put that
collection of stuff oh they'll probably
just go and they'll take it and throw it
in like
mfs or whatever um or
or some or they or they're looking for
something and we have nothing right now
so now we get to design it from scratch
without any legacy issues if we want to
right no this definitely changed how
this definitely changes how we were
thinking about that pointer because i
think
the way that we did it was it's a union
so it already can be multiple things but
it's either like the inlined
version or it's the link i think it's a
kind of union on that
um or maybe might have been before i
actually had good kind of union so it
might not be
um but it should be um but if we're
saying like
no it needs to contain this extra
metadata in just the file pointer part
that points to that or actually here
well i mean the question is the link i
mean i guess maybe this is like high
level is
uh we have a we have a link interface
sort of thing that we have one
implementation for which is cid
and the question is could it support
something that wasn't cid
so this is the way that this this is the
way that we've been looking at it
is that like cid is a low-level
primitive standard
like like kind of multi-formats right um
that's like the immutable pointer part
all across kind of like uh our our data
structures
we take like these primitives like the
cid or like bytes
and then we create like a bigger layout
that's like here's what's like you
treat this like bytes like everywhere
but actually it's like a series of
fights
and the way that we're thinking about
this is like okay we we have
links how do we create like a more
complicated link that has other things
it's like does it have a path in it
does it have like you know does it have
an ips record associated with it
um so yeah i think we even had like a
small discussion about mutable links and
and what that kind of data structure
could look like
but um yeah i think that's that's i
think you're right that's probably the
right way to attack it it's like
how do we um talk about links that that
have ips records associated with them so
like
it points to the immutable state like
that's in there but it also has a has an
indication of like how you might update
that
um yeah okay okay interesting
yeah let's start that discussion in this
factory talk yeah yeah there's like a
bunch of weird questions there sorry go
ahead eric
uh i have two large groups of
observations one is
a bunch of this turns into application
level semantics anytime you're getting
around mutability
and so what i want to be able to do is
make a schema
for unix of sp2 that describes all of
the immutable parts
and then stops and then hopefully we're
going to be able to reuse this as some
sort of a library
like we use this compu compositionally
to produce a mutable file system
a space mutable file system method and
um in slightly more detail
as michael already mentioned we've got
unions in a bunch of places where
there's a pointer to a thing
and so to have the schema for unix of
sv2
immutable and then to write a second
schema
which is almost entirely the exact same
darn thing that adds another member to
that union
is a very easy operation to describe and
we can
throw both of them at a piece of data
and decide which one it is and then the
user can also decide if they want to
allow the mutable thing in their current
context or not
um i had a big number too
no idea what it was brains are hard well
like
i don't know i don't know though like
the thing about this is that
even when you have the mutable pointer
you also have the immutable one so it
might be
it might be worth it to just make it one
spec since you it is always
immutable and the application tier can
always just say like
i'm going to ignore the mutability right
i mean it does that anyway if you're
offline
like i don't think that claim will
actually survive application development
and people having opinions
not consistently it has to work offline
though
i
i should unwind my thinking a little bit
here i don't see a difference
between the mutable and the immutable
um standard because you're always only
looking at the immutable state
if if it's a mutable pointer then the
update operation is to mutate the graph
and then read the new immutable state
so it's not as if these are actually
like two different things and if you
don't have a mechanism by which you can
update the mutable state
you're just always reading the immutable
side anyway it's the same it's like the
same thing right like the immutable
version doesn't
need any of the code for the mutability
and there's no conflict like
can i can you name a space where
you actually like where it would
prohibit like where it would actually be
a problem
that somebody put the mutability in
there
cycles and you want to be what cycles
right you can use mutable things to
create what to create cycles
infinite directories which is one of the
things i wanted to mention real quick
about the link interface and the
specific question you asked about that
earlier
can we make ipns fit into the link
interface especially if you're talking
about the go ipod prime definition of it
the answer is hard
no because yeah yeah okay yeah yeah yeah
i like
like that that's my point right is that
like um if you're looking at it like a
mutable pointer
is just an immutable pointer that tells
you how to mutate the graph to get the
new state
it's not actually a mutable pointer like
an application i'll put it this way
in application even one that is online
and has the capability of updating the
mutable state
it should never read the graph as if
it's mutable
it should never like go and just like
proactively look at that
it should always just go oh there there
is an opportunity to update this before
i read it i should update this graph
and then now i'm going to read the
updated graph right
like that's actually the operation isn't
it
it's it's like um it's it's a breakpoint
like adls
are conceptualized to be where you get
to a thing and
you jump out of it into some other space
not like a link which is an integrated
part of the graph
it's a i get here i get to make a choice
that is
in codeland somewhere else not in the
state of the data
yeah and and the immutable graph can
only be read right like by definition
there's no write operations
so um it it like an immutable version of
unix of this youtube is the same thing
you're just only reading through the
the immutable side of it and you're
never thinking about the mutation
operations
right but why
why the context of unix fs we're talking
about mutation
at all because we are not going to be
encoding the interface into a schema or
even
into an adl for something as basic as
yeah as unix of s
so where would the mutability even come
is an adl in a way though right like
it's giving you a type that's a file
it's not an adl in terms of like it's
not a higher order kind
like we have in our data model but it is
like a new type like you get a file
like in dagdb if i want to like take a
file and store it
i'm going to use the unix effect like
i'm going to use that adl and then i'm
going to actually hand you a class that
says that it's a file it has metadata
associated with it like i'm not just
going to give you the
like json looking data right right but
all of this is an implementation detail
that is specific to how your app
deals with producing this static
immutable dag something else that reads
or writes such as that will not
obey any of this interface or implement
them it will do things differently
but that's true of all adls right now
right
like all adls like at the data layer
just look like a bunch of data model and
then
like you have to have code and different
people are going to interpret that code
differently when they read it
right like i mean until we have a way to
encode the the compute into the graph
it's all the same exactly and by
encoding the compute we're essentially
encoding the
read operation because you can't encode
the right of something
right it doesn't work this way right so
basically basically
what i'm trying to understand is um
a number of you throw mutability as a
concept liberally around
and it doesn't click for me like where
does it actually fit into what we're
doing with content and traceability
because
they just don't click
yeah i mean um in this case a mutable
pointer
is an immutable pointer with a hint as
to how you might update to a new state
of this graph
but that mutation operation is entirely
in the application here
right
but this is somehow but it's somehow
standardized i guess
i'll give you a better example that like
you've been involved in
so um the uh unix this file permissions
um like these are not a real [ __ ]
thing
in ipfs right like we we don't have
those user records and
user ids we have no idea what that means
it like literally means
nothing and we guarantee no security
around it because it's just
meta data that we wanted to like um hold
on to
from the file system that we took the
data from and so like
we have like conversations in university
two about maintaining that data
and moving it around even though it's
completely
useless to ipfs it's completely useless
to like
our entire idea of the data and in the
immutable state
it's just for the application tier to be
able to preserve it if it were to
serialize
something else right well yes but this
metadata is also part of the data
in a way because a posix file system is
not just a bunch of bytes
it's a bunch of semantics around this
button right
but yeah but you're describing every
data structure right like every data
structure has a bunch of data that
nobody knows about except the
application
i think i think a better analogy for
this might be if you were to
take a um a set of files and directories
from mac os and put on linux
um there would be a bunch of leftovers
that would just
that you wouldn't see on mac os like um
uh things like you know the cached icons
um and some other metadata that just
don't appear uh
like because the because mac os
interprets them in a special way
um whereas on on linux it doesn't so so
if you
so if we had some kind of special
pointer type it may be for
um some implementations it would just
show up as some
weird little file or a marker that
is just a dead end whereas if you
interpret interpret it through the lens
of
this the pointer adl maybe uh then it
becomes something
a magical portal to a mystery land um
but yeah otherwise it's just a little
nothing yeah so it's actually called
that actually it's the magic dot file
in mac os that actually determines a
mime type
ds store man right but but but again
like
we circled back to all of this is
basically on interpretation
so read inside yeah yeah i mean but in
order to interpret it we have to have
like a standard specifications and you
know how to write it so that different
people interpret it the same way
i mean that's that's all that it really
is um that's just why i think that like
it's not
it's not two specs it's it's just one
stack um
okay that was a lot of things
can we back like way way way way up when
we started talking about mutability
uh michael you advanced something that
is
one theory of the way this could be
defined that i don't think
is actually clearly identified and i
want to pause briefly and identify it
you seem to have suggested that mutable
links
will always forever in all cases come in
the format of a
section specifying some kind of
mutability
thing which we didn't discuss at all
plus a currently
immutable link while that may be a way
that applications choose to structure
some things
i don't think that that's actually um
the only
way yes yeah yeah no no uh
i should have put that that's how we
should do it
i think that's how like that's a good
practice that we should have that we
should always encode the immutable state
and the hint to mutated
back again um but yeah i think that
people do this already with ips right
like they just put an ips record
somewhere and they don't say like
like they're like go look this up right
um
like that's what they're saying with it
they're not like also linking to the
immutable state outside of that
yeah but like i think getting overly
prescriptive about this is a tad
dangerous as well and i wouldn't want to
put it in any
too fundamental of a place because
sometimes people will come up with ideas
like oh yeah i want
my if i have pairs like this i want the
immutable side to point to something
that is itself like a hash tree over the
history of the thing right okay the
equivalent semantically of like
lifting up the idea of a git commit tree
as opposed to linking directly to
individual
data content trees and like
i don't want to over specify that in
such a way that i prevent people from
inventing things like that
yeah um i mean we we should we should
document this as a best
practice and write out our reasoning
because the the main thing that i'm
trying to solve with that practice
is just the idea that you you should
never
if you can avoid it only point to like
some mutable pointer
um because then you lose all of the cash
ability right
so if you can you always do both but
like if you're coming from anywhere that
is not ipld and content disability
then your instinct is to think of a link
as a mutable thing that people always go
and look up
and so it's like going to be people's
instincts to actually do
what we think in most cases is the wrong
thing and we should drive them away from
it
but yeah you're right like there's there
are many interpretations to get into
of these things yeah an adl question
when figuring out what to do
in your like jump out to the rest of the
universe do you get access
to the link that caused you to do that
look up or no
that's a really good question um i think
the interfaces that i wrote and go ipld
prime but it's sort of regional
if you want to go farther you have to
use closures but it's like it's sort of
hypothetically possible anyway
so the reason i ask is that if you were
to do anything with ipns stuff
you may want to know the cid
not just the data not just the record
right because the there's the cid and
there's the record
but if the key information only lives in
the cid and not in the record because
you were trying to save bytes
yeah yeah yeah no no that's that's
probably fine
um especially when it's that shallow
okay when it's that
out shallow yeah yeah it was just like a
really simple okay
this is actually like a something that
we've been contending with a little bit
where
um some of our interfaces did not
think enough about how state gets
carried over as you traverse
and how a lot of data structures
actually like aren't interpretable
without the state that you carried over
and that gets a little tricky with some
of the interfaces but like at this point
i'm pretty comfortable saying that like
most data structures that are
sufficiently complex have to do it
i could do it in dagdb um i think unix
fest probably doesn't though
i think like you it's designed so that
you can take any part of it
and that's like fine to attach to
another graph so we're we're designing
for that in that case so it should be
fine um
but there are so like i mean look at the
file coin chain
you know look at like any database you
know you're you're
don't look at the falcon chain
okay don't look at the last country um
but uh yeah i mean it's yeah you
you can't be expected to actually be
able to interpret one piece of data
often without
at least part of the traversal path
yeah yeah i would also so this is this
is like
thank you all for letting me snipe you
for a while with that
um would also like i you know ideally
depending on how our times line up
uh either towards the end of this year
or next year
to actually get all of the cool stuff
that eric has been working on for a
while to like
live and go ipfs is more as more than
like a it's also kind of
maybe here as a graph sync thing um
especially just having recently like i
added like an ipfs dag stat
command that was really simple
just because like people were like oh
how do i get
you know like penning services were like
oh i need to get the size of an object
and then they were using like the
the object stat which is like no
right um right
for like various reasons is like no and
also it was preventing some of these
some of the pinning services from
storing arbitrary ipld data because they
had no way of
figuring out how much to charge people
because they didn't have any idea of how
much data it was taking up
right so they were like oh you're not
you're not tag pb bye
um all right are you gonna so
yeah yeah no it was the very same
conversation that we kind of started
like two months ago
i believe with uh with matt and did
basically yeah yeah
yeah we were also like informing him
that you can totally lie about this
right right right so there's like
various reasons but
but but like in general making these
things like
surfacing them more high level i think
it will also help with
um ipfs is in my opinion a little too
more a little too binary right now and a
little less
library especially on the go side
javascript does a better job at library
things
uh we go side leaves to be desired
um but i suspect that especially if you
start getting ipfs's library things
people are going to want to start
interacting with all the ipld things
because i think and i was having a talk
with with dietrich when we were we were
talking to
um some folks who were like microsoft is
working on
is working on ion and it's like
inevitably all of these conversations
end up being like oh you guys might want
to consider like ipld structures that
are not files
um right like that's like inevitably how
every like all these conversations go
it's like you get to a point of
customization where it's like okay
now if you're shaving it down to this
maybe
file isn't the right right and so like
just just sort of
yeah taking the tooling plumbing it
through fpfs then like shoving it up to
the users so they can interact with it
that way
yeah yeah i think the early feedback
that we had gotten was like if
you want to build new data structures
really one in some kind of code gen
so that's like where we've been spending
the time but like the dag
api and all of that stuff in ipfs really
should be able to move
like as soon as you want um and then
unix just v2
you know that'll that will probably land
like with cogen stuff
because we'll have schemas for it and
everything cogen is
like how far along what is the
percentage eric that is complete at this
point
a lot actually i looked at the checklist
and i think it was like 70 or 80 or
something
yeah the checklist for features
internally is probably at like 70 or 80
and the things that are remaining are
the less used
things um but turning it into a cli
facing tool and doing some of the polish
to make it like
usable by anyone other than
unfortunately roughly me is still
a big to-do so i don't have a commercial
on that one as well but it's getting a
lot closer
soon yeah no i i don't suspect any of
these things are like none of these are
like happening tomorrow
but they're like oh they're they're on
the radar of
of things that you know we're neglected
for a little while because it was like
oh i
lit peter p is all the fires so let's go
do all the lipid few things and then
it's like
all right cool let's go do the ipld
things
oh thank you for indulging me no problem
all right all right um
michael do you want to talk the last
five minutes
about his stuff i'm kind of tired but um
i mean yeah so we can also like close
the meeting it's fine for me
yeah yeah i i'm putting together some
slides
um for all hands and stuff so
um i should like all of this should be a
lot better
um pretty soon the readme is a lot
better than it used to be the spec is a
lot better than it used to be so if
you're interested in z
i would
um sorry i got a call
and ios thinks that no matter what is
happening you have to take the call
um
so yeah everything is looking like a lot
cleaner so at this point actually maybe
people should just read it and then tell
me if it makes sense
um but yeah basically like the
it is a very new way to look actually no
here's what i'll say
um and i've told a few people this today
already but um
don't we you can't look at it like
traditional compression
because the relationship of a compressor
to the person generating the data
is so different so like a string
compressor takes anybody's string data
right a video compressor takes anybody's
video data and when you're making a
video
like the the cinematographer isn't like
writing out like what the h.264
compression rate is and then adjusting
their shots
like that's not how video is made um
it's too con like one the compressive
logic is too complicated to get your
head around
uh and two like that's just not the
relationship but data structures are
very different like if we're gonna
compress a data structure
um the the person producing it isn't can
be an active participant
so it's not just like oh here's a bunch
of techniques to really get down the
size
and the representation um it's also like
how do we describe these features to
people so that they can
adjust their data structure to match
because we do this by hand right now in
seaboard
like we we sit there and we talk about
every bite that seborrhe uses
to represent a structure so that we can
get it down to the minimal amount of
bites
um if we had really simple compression
techniques that could shave those even
farther
then we would definitely chop things
down even more um
not to say that it doesn't work over
generic data like i said you know we
chopped the file coin chain down by like
eight percent and that was before i
found a lot of these new techniques
um so i think i'll get it down even
further
really i think what is uh what needs to
be called out is what you are working
on is our
container format for data model
and you know and and and the like is
generally
relatively fat itself so you focused on
compressing
the container format and the raw raw
payload
is kind of still left the way it is for
the most part if it's binary
and for that there are already like you
know generic
compression techniques and you even
wrote about trying to do deflate and
stuff like that
is that you focus strictly on the
container
metadata which because of how we do
things
there are gains to be made there knowing
how we do things
yeah the language that i landed on with
the research uh team is structural
compression
so we're compressing the structural
representation of the data
we're not actually touching the value
data um which is which also makes it
very different than other compression
schemes because you can do double
compression on it right like that's
that's usually like a big no-no but like
we we put all of that data that could be
compressed into the string compressor
like over here
and you can still use a string
compressor on it um we're just getting
down
all the tokens used to for the
structural representation
um but yeah there's one in there that i
like barely documented in specs because
i
haven't implemented it but the yeah that
that table
compression is nuts um like that's just
gonna get rid of all the tokens
um but yeah cool
nothing else so then i close the meeting
and see everyone again
next week in september bye everyone